## Hawk Resource Manager
* Yarn does resource enforcement on container level, and HAWQ Resource Manager just requests containers from YARN. However, HAWQ query processes are not under YARN container indeed.
* **Resource Enforcement** works in line with Resource Manager. It guarantees that resource usage of query does not exceed the resources assigned to it by Resource Manager. It restricts three kinds of resources: CPU, Block I/O bandwidth, and Memory.
* CPU and Block I/O enforcement rely on Linux Kernel Tool CGroup to do **per query** resource restriction. A QE process is assigned to two separate control groups;
* Memory enforcement relies on VM protect mechanism, **per segment**. Control group is not an option for memory enforcement since a query will be killed once it exceeds the memory limit. gp_vmem_protect_limit is updated by segment resource manager;
* resource enforcer is currently implemented in segment resource manager instead of a separate process;
* CGroup name must be unique
* If the query has multiple slices, the processes will go into one same group
* resource enforcer is mainly used for garbage collectioin of cgroups?
* Postmaster forks a process for resource management in each HAWQ node. The difference is that the RM process on master is responsible for resource request from /return to Yarn, and the resource allocation for each HAWQ query, while RM processes on slave are responsible for resource restriction on local node. Also the RM processes on master and slaves together provide Fault Tolerance Function.
* why not talking to cgroup daemon directly from QE? for garbage recollection?
* RE process provides three APIs: MoveToGroup, MoveOutGroup and SelfClean. MoveToGroup and MoveOutGroup are called by Query Executor, while SelfClean is called by RE process itself.
* For memory management, in some cases, it needs to cancel some running queries so that the memory is freed before the memory limited is decreased.